[EN/ZH] Update `Performance points` (#12403)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Performance_points/en.md

- Introduce a scaling factor to the additional pp gain from approach rate 11 maps based on the length of a beatmap
- Introduce a scaling factor to the pp loss affected by the [No Fail](/wiki/Gameplay/Game_modifier/No_Fail) mod based on the number of misses in a play
- Introduce a scaling factor to the pp loss affected by the [Spun Out](/wiki/Gameplay/Game_modifier/Spun_Out) mod based on the number of spinners in a beatmap
- Adjust the rate of pp loss from misses to be more forgiving on longer maps with higher combo
- Punish lower [accuracy](/wiki/Gameplay/Accuracy) plays with less pp gain

On October 28, 2024, a newer changes were deployed. The specifics of the changes made are detailed in the [corresponding newspost](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2024-10-28-performance-points-star-rating-updates). the main points of interest in the update were as follows:

- osu!
  - Remove combo scaling

>   - Improvement rhythm complexity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Improve rhythm complexity
```

No system is completely perfect, and performance point totals will certainly vary between mapsets and certain mod combinations, even when the subjective difficulty of those plays may be lower than a more difficult map.

Overall, the current performance points system has been engineered to be as fair as possible under the constraints of its model.

## History

The initial implementation of performance points was revealed to the public in April 2012 and was then known only as the mysterious *"???"* project.

With the full name revealed later on in the month, this new system sought to change the previous standard of player performance from simply total [score](/wiki/Gameplay/Score) to something that accurately reflected skill. The new system was met with widespread acclaim among the player base at the time.

Several months after its reveal, the 20120722-24 osu! release officially implemented the system to fully replace the old [Ranked](/wiki/Beatmap/Category#ranked) score system, with new scores being calculated every 30 minutes. Later on, in August of the same year, the system was improved to update in real-time.

> It continued to exist in this capacity for more than a year of service until [Tom94](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1857058), the creator of the *osu!tp* scoring metric, joined the [osu! team](/wiki/People/osu!_team) and implemented his design into the system. The resulting system was titled *ppv2*, and became live on January 27, 2014, therefore renaming the old system to *[ppv1](/wiki/Performance_points/ppv1)*. Since then, the system has been continuously maintained. but no major updates have been made.

Reviewer: wrong tense

```suggestion
It continued to exist in this capacity for more than a year of service until [Tom94](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1857058), the creator of the *osu!tp* scoring metric, joined the [osu! team](/wiki/People/osu!_team) and implemented his design into the system. The resulting system was titled *ppv2*, and became live on January 27, 2014, therefore renaming the old system to *[ppv1](/wiki/Performance_points/ppv1)*. Since then, the system was continuously maintained. but no major updates were made.
```

> It continued to exist in this capacity for more than a year of service until [Tom94](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1857058), the creator of the *osu!tp* scoring metric, joined the [osu! team](/wiki/People/osu!_team) and implemented his design into the system. The resulting system was titled *ppv2*, and became live on January 27, 2014, therefore renaming the old system to *[ppv1](/wiki/Performance_points/ppv1)*. Since then, the system has been continuously maintained. but no major updates have been made.

Reviewer 2: I feel like it might make more sense for this sentence to lead into the changes below.

`no major updates were made` followed by a bunch of major changes feels a bit strange, but maybe I'm reading into it too much.

If we're keeping the sentence here though, should at least correct the incorrect punctuation (on top of Wala's suggestion):

```suggestion
It continued to exist in this capacity for more than a year of service until [Tom94](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1857058), the creator of the *osu!tp* scoring metric, joined the [osu! team](/wiki/People/osu!_team) and implemented his design into the system. The resulting system was titled *ppv2*, and became live on January 27, 2014, therefore renaming the old system to *[ppv1](/wiki/Performance_points/ppv1)*. Since then, the system has been continuously maintained, but no major updates have been made.
```

> On January 16, 2021, changes were made to the ppv2 system that aimed to more accurately award pp to more difficult aspects of maps. These changes were made in large part by the help of various individual members of the community such as [Xexxar](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2773526) and [StanR](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7217455). The specifics of the changes made are detailed in the [corresponding news post](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2021-01-14-performance-points-updates). Very briefly, the main points of interest in the update were as follows:

Author: getting exact older news posts can be difficult, so I've added a note to indicate readers.

- Introduce a scaling factor to the additional pp gain from approach rate 11 maps based on the length of a beatmap
- Introduce a scaling factor to the pp loss affected by the [No Fail](/wiki/Gameplay/Game_modifier/No_Fail) mod based on the number of misses in a play
- Introduce a scaling factor to the pp loss affected by the [Spun Out](/wiki/Gameplay/Game_modifier/Spun_Out) mod based on the number of spinners in a beatmap
- Adjust the rate of pp loss from misses to be more forgiving on longer maps with higher combo
- Punish lower [accuracy](/wiki/Gameplay/Accuracy) plays with less pp gain

On October 28, 2024, more changes were deployed. The specifics of the changes made are detailed in the [corresponding news post](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2024-10-28-performance-points-star-rating-updates). The main points of interest in the update were as follows:

- osu!
  - Remove combo scaling
  - Improve rhythm complexity
  - Adjust fast flow aim

>   - Sliders now contribute to accuracy pp

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Sliders now contribute to accuracy pp for scores set on osu!(lazer)
```

Missed this at first, feels like an important clarification

- osu!taiko
  - Consider TL-tapping in the stamina component of star rating
  - Adjust [Hidden](/wiki/Gameplay/Game_modifier/Hidden) and [Flashlight](/wiki/Gameplay/Game_modifier/Flashlight) bonus in the accuracy component of pp calculation
  - Adjust accuracy scaling
- osu!catch
  - Introduce a scaling factor to the pp loss affected by the [No Fail](/wiki/Gameplay/Game_modifier/No_Fail) mod based on the number of misses in a play
- osu!mania

>   - Adjust LN value scaling to address overweighted LN maps

Author: the news post link has already been provided on top of this, imo using a link for each section isn't necessary. and these links may override other links to the terms.
